Added new page describing how to get started with local development (#102)
omnivector-solutions/jobbergate: jobbergate-docs/src/local-development.rst

=========================
 Local Development Setup
=========================

There are several options available for running parts of Jobbergate locally. This
document will walk through the most important ones.

Local jobbergate-cli setup
--------------------------

The ``jobbergate-cli`` is the easiest component to set up locally. It is designed so
that it may be deployed anywhere and only needs to be connected to an API.

Create a new application in Auth0
.................................

Before you begin, you will need to have an Auth0 application setup for your instance of
the ``jobbergate-cli``. Request one of the senior Armada engineers to set one up for
you. When the setup is done, you will be provided two values that you will need for
configuration:

* client_id

> * client_secret

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

> Save these for later

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

Clone the git repo
..................

Start by cloning the `jobbergate <https://github.com/omnivector-solutions/jobbergate>`_
repository and changing to the ``jobbergate-cli`` directory:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone git@github.com:omnivector-solutions/jobbergate.git
   $ cd jobbergate/jobbergate-cli

Install the python package
..........................

> Next, you will need to install the package. The ``jobbergate-cli`` package uses Poetry

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

for dependency and virtualenv management. Run this command to install the package:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ poetry install

Configure things
................

> Now, you will need to set up a local ``.env`` file containing some required settings.

Author: Actually, in English the verb form is the two words "set up" while the noun form is the single word "setup".

You will need to use the ``client_id`` and ``client_secret`` you got from the Auth0 setup
step.

Below is the minimum set of configuration values you will need to set::

   JOBBERGATE_API_ENDPOINT=https://armada-k8s.staging.omnivector.solutions/jobbergate
   AUTH0_DOMAIN=omnivector.us.auth0.com
   AUTH0_LOGIN_DOMAIN=login.omnivector.solutions
   AUTH0_AUDIENCE=https://armada.omnivector.solutions
   AUTH0_CLIENT_ID=<client_id>
   AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret>

Check it out
............

Now, to make sure that things are configured correctly, try logging in and fetching a
list of applications. For all the jobber gate commands, you will either need to be
executing them inside a poetry shell or prefixing them with a ``poetry run`` command. It

> is easiest to run in a poetry shell:

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

   │ 67  │ 00_smallcase_TEST      │ None                   │ smallcaseratssssss                 │ james.beedy@scania.com             │ True                 │
   │ 75  │ BDXTEST                │ None                   │ RATS                               │ james.beedy@scania.com             │ True                 │
   │ 78  │ converge-test          │ converge-app           │                                    │ abdallah.el-hajjam@scania.com      │ True                 │
   │ 84  │ 00_smallcase           │ None                   │ Small application for testing      │ james.beedy@scania.com             │ True                 │
   │     │                        │                        │ jobbergate.                        │                                    │                      │
   ...
   │ 91  │ tucker-test            │ tucker-test            │                                    │ tucker@omnivector.solutions        │ True                 │
   └─────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘

> If you see this kind of output, congratulations! You now have an local instance of

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

``jobbergate-cli`` working and ready for develoment.

Make sure to deactivate the Poetry virtualenv before you move on by typing "exit" or
hitting ``<ctl-d>``.

Local jobbergate-api setup
--------------------------

> The ``jobbergate-api`` is easiest to set up for local development using

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5.

``docker-compose``. There is a ``docker-compose.yml`` in the root directory of the main
``jobbergate`` repository that can be used to spin up the following services:

* The ``jobbergate-api``
* A local ``postgres`` instance for the ``jobbergate-api`` to consume
* A test ``postgres`` instance to use for the unit tests
* A ``minio`` instance for mimicing file storage on ``S3``

Create some basic config
........................

First, ``docker-compose`` will need a ``.env`` file that contains some basic settings.
Create the ``.env`` file in the root ``jobbergate`` directory with the following
contents::

   AUTH0_DOMAIN=omnivector.us.auth0.com
   AUTH0_AUDIENCE=https://armada.omnivector.solutions

Stand it up with ``docker-compose``
...................................

If you haven't already, `Clone the git repo`_.  From the root directory of the
``jobbergate`` directory, execute ``docker-compose``:

.. code-block:: bash

>    $ docker-compose up --build

Reviewer: The docker compose is not initializing the databases. To get the ready, the user should run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd jobbergate-api
    $ poetry install
    $ poetry shell
    $ alembic --config=alembic/alembic.ini upgrade d3388a22e0e9
    $ alembic --config=alembic/alembic.ini upgrade 5f987ab31acf
    $ alembic --config=alembic/alembic.ini upgrade 75325d649ee2

Author: You need only run one command: `make db-upgrade`.
This will install dependencies (if they are not installed already) and issue the alembic commands.

Author: I added a TODO in the doc to add this. We will need some effort to figure out a way to do this automatically when the database is being started via docker-compose. See commit 80630b5

Wait until the compose finishes.

Try out the API with Swagger
............................

Next we want to try out the API in a browser using Swagger. To do this, you will need
a functioning auth token with Jobbergate permissions. The easiest way to do this is to
use the ``jobbergate-cli``.

Change to the ``jobbergate-cli`` directory and activate the Poetry shell again. Then
show the cached auth token (you will need to login if you haven't yet):

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd jobbergate-cli
   $ poetry shell
   $ jobbergate show-token --prefix --plain

The token will automatically be copied to your clipboard for you. You can also just

> copy and paste it from the output if you like. You may now exit the Poetry shell and go

Reviewer: Sorry, I didn't get where it should be pasted

Author: Added some explanation in commit af2b1fa

back to the root ``jobbergate`` directory.

Now, open a browser to the ``jobbergate-api`` swagger page at
`localhost:8000/jobbergate/docs <http://localhost:8000/jobbergate/docs>`_.

You should see a listing of all the endpoints that are available to you. None of them
will be very interesting at this point, though, because the database you are using in
docker is empty.

Configure `jobbergate-cli` to use the local API
...............................................

At this point, you may configure your local ``jobbergate-cli`` to connect to your local

> ``jobbergate-api``. To do this, navigate ack to the ``jobbergate-cli`` directory and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``jobbergate-api``. To do this, navigate to the ``jobbergate-cli`` directory and
```

Author: Resolved in commit 80630b5

edit the ``.env`` file you created ealier to use the local API::

   JOBBERGATE_API_ENDPOINT=https://localhost:8000/jobbergate

Now, you can use ``jobbergate-cli`` to manipulate your local instance of jobbergate.

Connect local jobbergate-api with staging database
--------------------------------------------------

If you want to connect your local API with a database that is already populated with
data, you may connect your local ``jobbergate-api`` instance in ``docker-compose`` to
the staging jobbergate database.

To do this, you must:

* Have already configured aws-cli with your AWS credentials
* Have already configured kubectl to use the ``armada-k8s-cluster-staging`` cluster

If you have Jobbergate services running in ``docker-compose``, you will first need to
shut them down with this command:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ docker-compose down

Next, you will use ``kubectl`` to port-forward a local port to the Jobbergate database
hosted on the EKS Armada staging cluster. Use this command:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ kubectl port-forward service/jobbergate-postgres-cluster 8432:5432

Now, your local port 8432 will connect to the Postgres database in the Armada staging
cloud.

> Next, we will need to set up a local configuration to override the defaults in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will need to setup a local configuration to override the defaults in the
```
